install-docker-debian10.md, before:

# Install Docker and use Docker on Debian 10  <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->
- [vla](#vla)

## Intro here
Yes, I need to type a catchy introduction!

## Install prerequisites (which let apt use packages over HTTPS):

`sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg2 software-properties-common`

## Installing Docker

### Get things ready to install
Now we're going to install Docker from the official repository, but first get the system ready with a couple of commands at the server: 

* Add the GPG key for the official Docker repository to your system,
* Add the Docker repository to APT sources,
* Update the local package database.

```
$ curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/debian $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
$ sudo apt update
```

Make sure you are about to install from the Docker repo instead of the default Debian repo with the command:

`apt-cache policy docker-ce`

Notice that *docker-ce* is not installed, but it is candidate for installation from the Docker repository: 

![docker apt repo](img/docker-apt-repo.png)

### Install Docker

Type the command: `sudo apt install docker-ce` to install Docker. After a while Docker is installed and the daemon started. To check that everything is running type the command: `sudo systemctl status docker`:

![docker running](img/docker-running.png)

## Run the Docker command without using sudo everytime

Docker runs only as *root* or if the user belongs to the *docker group*. This group is automatically created during installation. I don't want to type *sudo* everytime I run the Docker command so I add my user *joep* to the *docker* group with the command: `sudo usermod -aG docker joep` and log out and back in.

Hooray! Docker is installed!

## Fix the Docker and UFW security flaw

Before you grab a beer, Docker has a UFW security flaw by not honoring the UFW rules. 

Edit the file `/etc/default/docker` and add the line:

```
DOCKER_OPTS="--iptables=false"
```

Restart the Docker daemon with the command `sudo systemctl restart docker`. From now on when deploying a container it will no longer alter iptables and will honor UFW.

## Get pihole as a first test

Pull the official pihole image:

`docker pull pihole/pihole'


## Docker cheat sheet
| Docker command            | Description                                                                                            |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| docker images             | To see the images that have been downloaded to your computer.                                          |
| docker search unifi       | Search for UniFi images available on Docker Hub.                                                       |
| docker pull pihole/pihole | Download the official piHole docker image from DockerHub.                                              |
| docker run -it unifi      | The combination of the -i and -t switches gives you interactive shell access into the UniFi container. |
| docker ps                 | View active containers.                                                                                |
| docker ps -a              | View all containers.                                                                                   |
| docker ps -l              | View the last container you added.                                                                     |
| docker start d42d0bbfbd35 | Start a stopped container.                                                                             |
| docker stop d42d0bbfbd35  | Stop a container.                                                                                      |
| docker rm d42d0bbfbd35    | Remove a container                                                                                     |

## Extra's
`sudo apt install dnsutils`

Commit message:

Install Docker on Debian draft added.

install-docker-debian10.md, after:

# Install Docker and use Docker on Debian 10  <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->
- [vla](#vla)

## Intro here
Yes, I need to type a catchy introduction!

## Install prerequisites (which let apt use packages over HTTPS):

`sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg2 software-properties-common`

## Installing Docker

### Get things ready to install
Now we're going to install Docker from the official repository, but first get the system ready with a couple of commands at the server: 

* Add the GPG key for the official Docker repository to your system,
* Add the Docker repository to APT sources,
* Update the local package database.

```
$ curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/debian $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
$ sudo apt update
```

Make sure you are about to install from the Docker repo instead of the default Debian repo with the command:

`apt-cache policy docker-ce`

Notice that *docker-ce* is not installed, but it is candidate for installation from the Docker repository: 

![docker apt repo](img/docker-apt-repo.png)

### Install Docker

Type the command: `sudo apt install docker-ce` to install Docker. After a while Docker is installed and the daemon started. To check that everything is running type the command: `sudo systemctl status docker`:

![docker running](img/docker-running.png)

## Run the Docker command without using sudo everytime

Docker runs only as *root* or if the user belongs to the *docker group*. This group is automatically created during installation. I don't want to type *sudo* everytime I run the Docker command so I add my user *joep* to the *docker* group with the command: `sudo usermod -aG docker joep` and log out and back in.

Hooray! Docker is installed!

## Fix the Docker and UFW security flaw

Before you grab a beer, Docker has a UFW security flaw by not honoring the UFW rules. 

Edit the file `/etc/default/docker` and add the line:

```
DOCKER_OPTS="--iptables=false"
```

Restart the Docker daemon with the command `sudo systemctl restart docker`. From now on when deploying a container it will no longer alter iptables and will honor UFW.

## Install Docker Compose

If your Docker application includes more than one container (for example, a webserver and database running in separate containers), building, running, and connecting the containers from separate Dockerfiles is cumbersome and time-consuming. Docker Compose solves this problem by allowing you to use a YAML file to define multi-container apps. You can configure as many containers as you want, how they should be built and connected, and where data should be stored. When the YAML file is complete, you can run a single command to build, run, and configure all of the containers.

Install the latest release from https://github.com/docker/compose/releases (replace 1.24.1 with the lastst)

```
sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.24.1/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

Set the permissions

`sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

## install vscode
# configure vscode
# add ssh keys



## Get pihole as a first test

Pull the official pihole image:

`docker pull pihole/pihole'


## Docker cheat sheet
| Docker command            | Description                                                                                            |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| docker images             | To see the images that have been downloaded to your computer.                                          |
| docker search unifi       | Search for UniFi images available on Docker Hub.                                                       |
| docker pull pihole/pihole | Download the official piHole docker image from DockerHub.                                              |
| docker run -it unifi      | The combination of the -i and -t switches gives you interactive shell access into the UniFi container. |
| docker ps                 | View active containers.                                                                                |
| docker ps -a              | View all containers.                                                                                   |
| docker ps -l              | View the last container you added.                                                                     |
| docker start d42d0bbfbd35 | Start a stopped container.                                                                             |
| docker stop d42d0bbfbd35  | Stop a container.                                                                                      |
| docker rm d42d0bbfbd35    | Remove a container                                                                                     |

## Extra's
`sudo apt install dnsutils`
